WPS Application Guielines
=========================

This document is inspired by discussions in Telos WPS chat and by EOS
VC Grants program. The [Grants](https://vc.eos.io/grants/) page offers
a nicely structured grant application template.

The goal if this document is to propose an applicant a set of
questions that a Worker Proposal would need to answer, so that the
voters have a clear picture of what they are sponsoring.

Further in this document, NETWORK stands for the name of the
blockchain that is sponsoring worker proposals.

## 1. Title, date and author

The title of the proposal should be informative and short. This is the
first line of text that voters would see, and it needs to attract
their attention. It must also be relevant to the essence of the
proposal.

Date, name (or nickame) and contact information of the author are what
everyone expects from any kind of proposal.


## 2. Mission

Why are you building this project? What is the problem it's going to
solve? How is the problem applicable to NETWORK?

## 3. Target

Who will be the primary customer (or user) of your work? How will they
use it?

## 4. Solution

Describe the solution and how it will solve the problem. Describe how
NETWORK will benefit from it.

## 5. The big picture

What is the competition? How is your solution better?

If applicable, the do-nothing scenario or what your plans are if the
proposal gets declined.

## 6. Roadmap

Describe the timeline of your project: milestones, release schedule.

## 7. Human capital

Describe the key persons in implementing your proposal. What are their
skills, qualifications, achievements?

## 8. Finances

How will the grant money be used?

How much money is needed for the whole project? How much money do you
request from WPS and why?

If applicable, describe the business plan of the whole project in
short.

## 9. KPI

What will indicate a success of the proposal? What metrics are
applicable? How will the applicant report on the progress and
finalization of work?





## Copyright and License

Copyright 2019 cc32d9, EOS Amsterdam.

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License.

http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
